Various Utilities
To Make Full Screen:

Action: Devices → Insert Guest Additions CD Image
To Open Terminal:

Shortcut: Ctrl + Alt + T
To Close Terminal:

Shortcut: Ctrl + D
To Increase Font Size in Terminal:

Shortcut: Ctrl + Shift + Plus (+)
To Decrease Font Size in Terminal:

Shortcut: Ctrl + Minus (-)
To Copy and Paste Between Windows and Ubuntu:

Action: Devices → Shared Clipboard → Bidirectional
To Drag and Drop Files Between Windows and Ubuntu:

Action: Devices → Drag and Drop → Bidirectional



ls Command Overview

Command: ls

Description: Lists all files and directories present in the specified directory.
Manual Documentation: Use man ls to view complete information about the ls command.
Various Options of ls Command

ls

Description: Displays all files and directories in alphabetical order by name.

ls -r

Description: Displays all files and directories in reverse alphabetical order.

ls | more

Description: Displays content line by line.
Exit: Press q.

ls | pg

Description: Displays content page by page (20 lines per page).
Exit: Press q.

ls -l

Description: Displays a detailed long listing of files, including permissions, ownership, size, and modification date.

ls -l -t -r or ls -ltr

Description: Displays files in long listing format.
Sorts: By modification time and lists in reverse order (youngest files first).

ls -lrt

Description: Similar to the previous command but sorts by time (newest first) and lists in long format.

ls -rlt

Description: Lists in long format, sorted by time (newest first) and in reverse order.

ls -a

Description: Lists all files, including hidden files (those starting with a dot).
Note: Displays entries . (current directory) and .. (parent directory).

ls -A

Description: Lists all files, including hidden files, but excludes . and ...
Note: Useful for viewing hidden files without clutter from the current and parent directory entries.
Count Commands:

ls | wc -l: Counts the number of files in the current directory (returns 18).
ls -a | wc -l: Counts all files, including hidden ones (returns 21).
ls -A | wc -l: Counts all files except for . and .. (returns 19).
ls -F

Description: Displays all files in the current directory, appending a character to indicate file type.
Indicators:
/: Directory
*: Executable file
@: Symbolic link
ls -f

Description: Disables color output in the listing; presents the matched files exactly as they are.

ls -i

Description: Displays all files along with their corresponding inode numbers.
Inode Details: Contains metadata about a file/directory, excluding its name or actual data.

ls -R

Description: Lists all files and directories recursively, including the contents of subdirectories.

ls -s

Description: Displays the number of blocks used by each file or directory (1 block typically equals 1 KB).

ls -h / ls -lh

Description: Displays file sizes in a human-readable format.


Inode Information
Definition:
An inode (index node) in Linux is a data structure used to represent a file or directory on a filesystem. Each inode contains metadata about a file or directory, including:

File Type: Indicates whether the entry is a regular file, directory, or symbolic link.
Permissions: Access control information (read, write, execute permissions).
Owner and Group: User and group ownership of the file.
Size: The size of the file in bytes.
Timestamps: Information about the last access, modification, and inode change times.
Link Count: The number of hard links pointing to the inode.
Pointers to Data Blocks: Addresses of the actual data blocks where the file's content is stored on the disk.
Each file or directory is identified by its inode number, which is unique within the filesystem. When accessing a file, the filesystem uses the inode to retrieve the file's metadata and locate its data blocks.


Note: If the number of files are very huge, then we can use less and more commands with ls to display page by page.  

Using less and more with ls:

ls -l /etc | more
Displays the output one page at a time, allowing navigation only in the forward direction.
Action: Press Space for the next page.

ls -l /etc | less
Displays the output with both forward and backward navigation capabilities.
Action: Use Space for the next page and b to go back to the previous page.

Description: If the number of files is very large, you can use less or more commands to display the output page by page.
Commands:
$ ls /dev | less
$ ls /dev | more
Using head and tail with ls:

Description: To display a fixed number of files either from the top or the bottom of the list.
Commands:
$ ls /dev | head -5
Output: Displays only the top 5 lines.
$ ls /dev | tail -5
Output: Displays only the bottom 5 lines.
Using Options Simultaneously:

Note: You can use options simultaneously with the ls command, and the order of options does not matter.
Examples: All the following commands are equivalent:
$ ls -l -t -r
$ ls -t -r -l
$ ls -l -r -t
$ ls -ltr
$ ls -trl 


Q1 Command to Display All Files Including Hidden Files in Last Modification Time Order (Oldest First) with Inode Number and Number of Blocks Used
Command:

ls -latris  
Options Explained:
-l: Long listing format.
-a: Includes hidden files (files starting with a dot).
-t: Sorts by modification time, with newest first.
-r: Reverses the order, so the oldest are shown first.
-i: Displays the inode number for each file.
-s: Shows the number of blocks used by each file.
Sample Output:

131279  4 -rw-r--r--  1 durga durga  807 Jan  3 12:57 .profile  
131277  4 -rw-r--r--  1 durga durga 3771 Jan  3 12:57 .bashrc  
162011  4 -rw-r--r--  1 durga durga  220 Jan  3 12:57 .bash_logout  
132496  4 drwx------  3 durga durga 4096 Jan  3 13:03 .gnupg  
132517  4 drwx------  3 durga durga 4096 Jan  3 13:03 .local  
404481  4 drwxr-xr-x  2 durga durga 4096 Jan  3 13:03 Templates  

Q2 Command to List All Files Including Hidden Files Along with Their Inode Numbers
Command:

ls -ai  
Options Explained:
-a: Includes hidden files.
-i: Displays the inode number for each file.
This command will provide a list of all files, including hidden ones, with their corresponding inode numbers.

Q3 Command to Make a Long Listing of All Files Including Hidden Files, Sorted by Modification Date (Oldest First)
Command:

ls -latr  
Options Explained:
-l: Long listing format.
-a: Includes hidden files.
-t: Sorts by modification time.
-r: Reverses the sorting order, showing the oldest files first.
This command will provide detailed information about all files in the directory, including hidden files, sorted from oldest to newest based on the last modification time.

